{
 "apr":"The mission of the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) is to provide a free library of C data structures and routines, forming a system portability layer to as many operating systems as possible.",
 "apr-util":"The mission of the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) is to provide a free library of C data structures and routines, forming a system portability layer to as many operating systems as possible. This package contains additional utility interfaces for APR; including support for XML, LDAP, database interfaces, URI parsing, and more.",
 "atop":"ATOP is an advanced interactive monitor for Linux-systems to view the load on system-level and process-level.",
 "bc":"bc is an arbitrary precision numeric processing language. Syntax is similar to C, but differs in many substantial areas. It supports interactive execution of statements. bc is a utility included in the POSIX P1003.2\/D11 draft standard.",
 "bind":"The named daemon and support utilities such as dig, host, and nslookup. Sample configuration files for running a simple caching nameserver are included. Documentation for advanced name server setup can be found in \/usr\/doc\/bind-9.x.x\/.",
 "bwm-ng":"Bandwidth Monitor NG is a small and simple curses-based bandwidth monitor for Linux or other systems with \/proc\/net\/dev or net-tools netstat. You can choose whether to show all interfaces or only those interfaces that are up.",
 "cksfv":"Check SFV creates simple file verification (.sfv) It can also list and verify existing sfv files. It uses the crc32 checksum. This is used to verify that the files that you received are the same as the originals.",
 "cpio":"This is GNU cpio, a program to manage archives of files. This package also includes mt, a tape drive control program. cpio copies files into or out of a cpio or tar archive, which is a file that contains other files plus information about them, such as their pathname, owner, timestamps, and access permissions. The archive can be another file on the disk, a magnetic tape, or a pipe.",
 "exiftool":"ExifTool is a platform-independent Perl library (Image::ExifTool) plus a command-line application (exiftool) for reading, writing, and editing meta information in image, audio, and video files. ExifTool supports many different types of metadata including EXIF, GPS, IPTC, XMP, JFIF, GeoTIFF, ICC Profile, Photoshop IRB, AFCP, FlashPix, AFCP, and ID3, and maker notes of many digital cameras.",
 "fdupes":"FDUPES is a program for identifying or deleting duplicate files residing within specified directories.",
 "git":"Git is a fast, scalable, distributed revision control system with an unusually rich command set that provides both high-level operations and full access to internals.  git  can mean anything, depending on your mood. Git was originally written by Linus Torvalds and is currently maintained by Junio C. Hamano.",
 "idle3-tools":"Idle3-tools provides a linux\/unix utility that can disable, get and set the value of the infamous idle3 timer found on recent Western Digital Hard Disk Drives. It can be used as an alternative to the official wdidle3.exe proprietary utility, without the need to reboot in a DOS environement. A power off\/on cycle of the drive will still be mandatory for new settings to be taken into account.",
 "iftop":"iftop does for network usage what top(1) does for CPU usage. It listens to network traffic on a named interface and displays a table of current bandwidth usage by pairs of hosts. Handy for answering the question  why is our link so slow?",
 "inotify-tools":"inotify-tools is a set of command-line programs for Linux providing a simple interface to inotify. These programs can be used to monitor and act upon filesystem events. For more information see the inotifywait and inotifywatch man pages.",
 "iotop":"iotop is a Python program with a top-like UI used to show of behalf of which process is the I\/O going on.",
 "iperf":"iperf is a tool for active measurements of the maximum achievable bandwidth on IP networks. It supports tuning of various parameters related to timing, protocols, and buffers. For each test it reports the bandwidth, loss, and other parameters. Iperf3 is a redesign of an original version developed at NLANR\/DAST",
 "jhead":"jhead displays and manipulates data contained in the Exif header of JPEG images from digital cameras. For many tasks, jhead remains the simplest and most effective tool for the job, especially if used for automated or scripted tasks.",
 "joe":"Joseph H. Allen\'s easy to use text editor, similar to WordStar(tm)",
 "kbd":"Load and save keyboard mappings. Needed if you are not using the US keyboard map. This package also contains utilities to change your console fonts - if you install it you ll get a menu later on that lets you select from many different fonts. If you like one, you can make it your default font. A new default font can be chosen at any time by typing  setconsolefont.",
 "lftp":"lftp is a program that allows sophisticated ftp and http connections to other hosts. lftp can handle many file access methods including ftp, ftps, http, https, hftp, fish and file. Every operation in lftp is reliable, that is any non-fatal error is ignored and the operation is retried. lftp has shell-like command syntax. lftp has a built in mirror feature which can download or upload a whole directory tree. To learn about many more features of lftp, see  man lftp.",
 "lrzip":"LRZIP is a file compression program designed to do particularly well on very large files containing long distance redundancy.  The larger the file and the more memory you have, the better the compression advantage this will provide.  A variety of compression options allow optimizing for size or speed.",
 "lshw":"lshw (Hardware Lister) is a small tool to provide detailed information on the hardware configuration of the machine. It can report exact memory configuration, firmware version, mainboard configuration, CPU version and speed, cache configuration, bus speed, etc. on DMI-capable x86 or EFI (IA-64) systems and on some PowerPC machines.",
 "lynx":"Lynx is a distributed hypertext browser with full World Wide Web capabilities. Lynx can be used to access information on the World Wide Web, or to build information systems intended primarily for local access.  For example, Lynx has been used to build several Campus Wide Information Systems (CWIS). Lynx's authors include Lou Montulli, Garrett Blythe, Craig Lavender,Michael Grobe, and Charles Rezac.",
 "mcelog":"mcelog is the user space backend for logging machine check errors reported by the hardware to the kernel. The kernel does the immediate actions (like killing processes etc.) and mcelog decodes the logs the errors. It primarily handles machine checks and thermal events, which are reported for errors detected by the CPU. It is recommended that mcelog runs on all x86 machines, both 64-bit and 32bit.",
 "md5deep":"md5deep is a cross-platform set of programs to compute MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, Tiger, or Whirlpool message digests on an arbitrary number of files. md5deep is similar to the md5sum program found in the GNU Coreutils package, but has the following additional features: Recursive operation, Comparison mode, Time estimation, Piecewise hasing, and File type mode.",
 "mediainfo":"MediaInfo supplies technical and tag information about a video or audio file.",
 "nc":"Netcat or nc as the actual program is named, is a simple utility which reads and writes data across network connections, using TCP or UDP protocol. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool that can be used directly or easily driven by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need and has several interesting built-in capabilities. Netcat was written by Hobbit hobbit@avian.org, and is a product of Avian Research.",
 "ncdu":"ncdu is an ncurses version of the famous old du unix command. It provides a fast and easy interface to your harddrive.",
 "neon":"neon is an HTTP and WebDAV client library, with a C language API. Bindings for other languages may also be available. The neon library is used by projects such as subversion.", "netcat-openbsd":"Netcat is a featured networking utility which reads and writes data across network connections, using the TCP/IP protocol. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool that can be used directly or easily driven by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need and has several interesting built-in capabilities.",
 "nload":"nload is a console application which monitors network traffic and bandwidth usage in real time. It visualizes the in and outgoing traffic using two graphs and provides additional info like total amount of transfered data an min/max network usage.",
 "nodejs":"Node.js is a platform built on Chrome V8 JavaScript runtime for easily building fast, scalable network applications. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.",
 "p7zip":"7-Zip is a well-known file compression utility for windows. p7zip is a ported version for linux with nearly the same capabilities.",
 "parallel":"GNU parallel is a shell tool for executing jobs in parallel using one or more computers. A job can be a single command or a small script that has to be run for each of the lines in the input. The typical input is a list of files, a list of hosts, a list of users, a list of URLs, or a list of tables. A job can also be a command that reads from a pipe. GNU parallel can then split the input and pipe it into commands in parallel.",
 "perl":"Larry Wall s  Practical Extraction and Report Language . Perl is a language optimized for scanning arbitrary text files, extracting information from those text files, and printing reports based on that information. It s also a good language for many system management tasks. The language is intended to be practical (easy to use, efficient, complete) rather than beautiful (tiny, elegant, minimal).",
 "python":"Python is an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. Python s basic power can be extended with your own modules written in C or C++. Python is also adaptable as an extension language for existing applications.",
 "python3":"Python is an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. This is a new version of the language that is incompatible with the 2.x line of releases. The language is mostly the same, but many details, especially how built-in objects like dictionaries and strings work, have changed considerably, and a lot of deprecated features have finally been removed. Also, the standard library has been reorganized in a few prominent places.",
 "readline":"The GNU Readline library provides a set of functions for use by applications that allow users to edit command lines as they are typed in. Both Emacs and vi editing modes are available. The Readline library includes additional functions to maintain a list of previously entered command lines, to recall and perhaps edit those lines, and perform csh-like history expansion on previous commands.",
 "rmlint":"rmlint finds space waste and other broken things on your filesystem and offers to remove it.",
 "screen":"Screen is a full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several processes (typically interactive shells). Each virtual terminal provides the functions of a DEC VT100 terminal and several control functions from the ISO 6492 (ECMA 48, ANSI X3.64) and ISO 2022 standards (e.g. insert\/delete line and support for multiple character sets). There is a scrollback history buffer for each virtual terminal and a copy-and-paste mechanism that allows moving text regions between windows.",
 "serf":"The serf library is a high performance C-based HTTP client library built upon the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) library.",
 "sshfs-fuse":"This is a filesystem client based on the SSH File Transfer Protocol. Since most SSH servers already support this protocol it is very easy to set up: i.e. on the server side there s nothing to do. On the client side mounting the filesystem is as easy as logging into the server with ssh.",
 "strace":"Strace allows you to trace the execution of a command. It runs the specified command until it exits, intercepting signals and system calls and dumping the information to the standard error. System administrators, diagnosticians and trouble-shooters will find it invaluable for solving problems with programs for which the source is not readily available since they do not need to be recompiled in order to trace them.",
 "stunnel":"The stunnel program is designed to work as an SSL encryption wrapper between remote client and local (inetd-startable) or remote servers. The goal is to facilitate SSL encryption and authentication for non-SSL-aware programs. stunnel can be used to add SSL functionality to commonly used inetd daemons like POP-2, POP-3 and IMAP servers without any changes in the program code.",
 "subversion":"Subversion is a version control system which allows you to keep old versions of files and directories (usually source code), and keep a log of who, when, and why changes occurred, similar to other such systems like CVS, RCS or SCCS. Subversion keeps all the information to permit extracting previous versions of those files at any time. For more information about the Subversion project.",
 "sysstat":"The sysstat utilities are a collection of performance monitoring tools for Linux. These include the iostat, mpstat, pidstat, sadf, and sar tools. The sysstat utilities were written by Sebastien Godard.",
 "tcpdump":"Tcpdump is a tool for network monitoring and data acquisition. You can use it to dump information on all the packets on a network that match a boolean expression. Tcpdump uses libpcap, a system independent interface for user-level packet capture.",
 "tmux":"tmux is a terminal multiplexer. It enables a number of terminals (or windows) to be accessed and controlled from a single terminal. tmux is intended to be a simple, modern, BSD-licensed alternative to programs such as GNU screen.",
 "unionfs-fuse":"filesystem implementation more flexible than kernel solution.",
 "unrar":"The UnRAR utility is a freeware program, distributed with source code and developed for extracting, testing and viewing the contents of archives created with the RAR archiver version 1.50 and above. The UnRAR library is a minor part of the RAR archiver and contains the RAR uncompression algorithm. UnRAR requires very small volume of memory to operate. The UnRAR library can also be used by other programs to extract RAR archives.",
 "utempter":"The utempter package provides a utility and shared library that allows terminal applications such as xterm and screen to update \/var\/run\/utmp and \/var\/log\/wtmp without requiring root privileges.",
 "vim":"Vim is an almost compatible version of the UNIX editor vi. Many new features have been added: multi level undo, command line history, filename completion, block operations, and more. Vim s development is led by Bram Moolenaar. This package also contains the Exuberant Ctags program written by Darren Hiebert.",
 "virtualenv":"virtualenv is a tool to create isolated Python environments."
}