{
 "anacron":"anacron is a computer program that performs periodic command scheduling, which is traditionally done by cron, but without assuming that the system is running continuously.",
 "apr":"Provides a free library of C data structures and routines, forming a system portability layer to as many operating systems as possible.",
 "apr-util":"Provides a free library of C data structures and routines, forming a system portability layer to as many operating systems as possible. This package contains additional utility interfaces for APR; including support for XML, LDAP, database interfaces, URI parsing, and more.",
 "arp-scan":"arp-scan sends ARP (Address Resolution Protocol) queries to the specified targets, and displays any responses that are received. It allows any part of the outgoing ARP packets to be changed, allowing the behavior of targets to non-standard ARP packets to be examined.",
 "atop":"An advanced interactive monitor for Linux-systems to view the load on system-level and process-level.",
 "avfs":"avfs is a system, which enables all programs to look inside archived or compressed files, or access remote files without recompiling the programs or changing the kernel.",
 "axel":"Axel tries to accelerate HTTP\/FTP downloading process by using multiple connections for one file.",
 "bash-completion":"Adds programmable completion to the bash shell.",
 "bashtop":"Resource monitor that shows usage and stats for processor, memory, disks, network and processes.",
 "bc":"bc is an arbitrary precision numeric processing language. Syntax is similar to C, but differs in many substantial areas. It supports interactive execution of statements.",
 "bind":"The named daemon and support utilities such as dig, host, and nslookup. Sample configuration files for running a simple caching nameserver are included.",
 "bluez":"Bluez is the Bluetooth stack for Linux, allowing Bluetooth adaptors and devices to be used with Linux.",
 "borgbackup":"BorgBackup (short: Borg) is a deduplicating backup program. Optionally, it supports compression and authenticated encryption. The main goal of Borg is to provide an efficient and secure way to backup data. The data deduplication technique used makes Borg suitable for daily backups since only changes are stored.",
 "bwm-ng":"A small and simple curses-based bandwidth monitor for Linux or other systems with \/proc\/net\/dev or net-tools netstat. You can choose whether to show all interfaces or only those interfaces that are up.",
 "byobu":"Byobu is an elegant enhancement of the otherwise functional, plain, practical GNU Screen.",
 "ccat":"Similar to cat but displays content with syntax highlighting.",
 "cdrtools":"Tools for mastering and writing compact discs.",
 "cksfv":"Check SFV creates simple file verification (.sfv) It can also list and verify existing sfv files. It uses the crc32 checksum. This is used to verify that the files that you received are the same as the originals.",
 "colordiff":"The Perl script colordiff is a wrapper for 'diff' and produces the same output but with pretty 'syntax' highlighting. Colour schemes can be customized.",
 "convmv":"convmv converts filenames (not file content), directories, and even whole filesystems to a different encoding. Though it's primary written to convert from\/to UTF-8 it can also be used with almost any other charset encoding. Convmv can also be used for case conversion from upper to lower case and vice versa with virtually any charset.",
 "cpio":"A program to manage archives of files. This package also includes mt, a tape drive control program. cpio copies files into or out of a cpio or tar archive, which is a file that contains other files plus information about them, such as their pathname, owner, timestamps, and access permissions. The archive can be another file on the disk, a magnetic tape, or a pipe.",
 "ctop":"Top-like interface for container metrics.",
 "ddrescue":"A data recovery tool that copies data from one file or block device to another, trying hard to rescue data in case of read errors. Every time you run it on the same output file, it tries to fill in the gaps.",
 "docker-compose":"Compose is a tool for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.",
 "dry":"A terminal application to manage and monitor Docker containers.",
 "dstat":"A versatile replacement for vmstat, iostat, netstat, nfsstat and ifstat. Dstat overcomes some of their limitations and adds some extra features, more counters and flexibility. Dstat is handy for monitoring systems during performance tuning tests, benchmarks or troubleshooting.",
 "elfutils":"Elfutils is a collection of utilities, including stack (to show backtraces), nm (for listing symbols from object files), size (for listing the section sizes of an object or archive file), strip (for discarding symbols), readelf (to see the raw ELF file structures), and elflint (to check for well-formed ELF files).",
 "exiftool":"A platform-independent Perl library (Image::ExifTool) plus a command-line application (exiftool) for reading, writing, and editing meta information in image, audio, and video files. ExifTool supports many different types of metadata including EXIF, GPS, IPTC, XMP, JFIF, GeoTIFF, ICC Profile, Photoshop IRB, AFCP, FlashPix, AFCP, and ID3, and maker notes of many digital cameras.",
 "expect":"A program that talks to other interactive programs according to a script. Following the script, it knows what can be expected from a program and what the correct response should be.",
 "fasd":"A command-line productivity booster. Fasd offers quick access to files and directories for POSIX shells. It is inspired by tools like autojump, z and v. Fasd keeps track of files and directories you have accessed, so that you can quickly reference them in the command line.",
 "fd":"A simple, fast and user-friendly alternative to find.",
 "fdupes":"A program for identifying or deleting duplicate files residing within specified directories.",
 "figlet":"A program for making large letters out of ordinary text.",
 "fio":"fio is a tool that will spawn a number of threads or processes doing a particular type of io action as specified by the user. fio takes a number of global parameters, each inherited by the thread unless otherwise parameters given to them overriding that setting is given. The typical use of fio is to write a job file matching the io load one wants to simulate.",
 "fish":"fish is a user friendly command line shell for UNIX-like systems. fish includes case insensitive completions, a multiline editing system, a new and simplified key binding system, and a large number of command specific completions.",
 "fping":"fping is a ping like program which uses the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) echo request to determine if a host is up. fping is different from ping in that you can specify any number of hosts on the command line, or specify a file containing the lists of hosts to ping.",
 "fswatch":"A cross-platform file change monitor with multiple backends.",
 "fuseiso":"A FUSE module to mount ISO filesystem images.",
 "fzf":"A command-line fuzzy finder written in Go.",
 "gcp":"gcp is freely inspired from cp, but with a few high-level functionalities such as transfer progression indication and many others.",
 "git-lfs":"Git LFS is a command line extension and specification for managinglarge files with Git. The client is written in Go",
 "httrack":"Easy to use offline browser utility.",
 "idle3-tools":"Provides a linux\/unix utility that can disable, get and set the value of the infamous idle3 timer found on recent Western Digital Hard Disk Drives. It can be used as an alternative to the official wdidle3.exe proprietary utility, without the need to reboot in a DOS environement. A power off\/on cycle of the drive will still be mandatory for new settings to be taken into account.",
 "iftop":"It listens to network traffic on a named interface and displays a table of current bandwidth usage by pairs of hosts. Handy for answering the question  why is our link so slow?",
 "inotify-tools":"inotify-tools is a set of command-line programs for Linux providing a simple interface to inotify. These programs can be used to monitor and act upon filesystem events. For more information see the inotifywait and inotifywatch man pages.",
 "iotop":"A Python program with a top-like UI used to show of behalf of which process is the I\/O going on.",
 "iperf3":"A tool for active measurements of the maximum achievable bandwidth on IP networks. It supports tuning of various parameters related to timing, protocols, and buffers. For each test it reports the bandwidth, loss, and other parameters. Iperf3 is a redesign of an original version developed at NLANR\/DAST",
 "ipmitool":"A utility for managing and configuring devices that support the Intelligent Platform Management Interface.",
 "irssi":"An Internet Relay Chat.",
 "jdupes":"Identifying and taking action upon duplicate files.",
 "jhead":"jhead displays and manipulates data contained in the Exif header of JPEG images from digital cameras. For many tasks, jhead remains the simplest and most effective tool for the job, especially if used for automated or scripted tasks.",
 "joe":"Joseph H. Allen easy to use text editor, similar to WordStar(tm)",
 "jq-onig":"A lightweight and flexible command-line JSON processor. oniguruma Regular expression library included.",
 "kbd":"Load and save keyboard mappings. Needed if you are not using the US keyboard map. This package also contains utilities to change your console fonts - if you install it you ll get a menu later on that lets you select from many different fonts. If you like one, you can make it your default font. A new default font can be chosen at any time by typing setconsolefont.",
 "keychain":"It acts as a front-end to SSH and GnuPG agents, allowing to have one long-running agent process per system, rather than per login session. This allows 'cron' jobs to use 'ssh' scripts in a friendly (yet secure) manner.",
 "ksh93":"KornShell is a powerful interactive shell offering a robust programming language with such features as associative arrays and built in integer math operations.",
 "lbzip2":"pthreads-based parallel bzip2\/bunzip2",
 "lftp":"A program that allows sophisticated ftp and http connections to other hosts. lftp can handle many file access methods including ftp, ftps, http, https, hftp, fish and file. Every operation in lftp is reliable, that is any non-fatal error is ignored and the operation is retried. lftp has shell-like command syntax. Has a built in mirror feature which can download or upload a whole directory tree. To learn about many more features of lftp, see  man lftp.",
 "libmediainfo":"A library for mediainfo.",
 "libzen":"A mandatory library for libmediainfo.",
 "llfuse":"A set of Python bindings for the low level FUSE API.",
 "lrzip":"A file compression program designed to do particularly well on very large files containing long distance redundancy.  The larger the file and the more memory you have, the better the compression advantage this will provide.  A variety of compression options allow optimizing for size or speed.",
 "lshw":"A small tool to provide detailed information on the hardware configuration of the machine. It can report exact memory configuration, firmware version, mainboard configuration, CPU version and speed, cache configuration, bus speed, etc. on DMI-capable x86 or EFI (IA-64) systems and on some PowerPC machines.",
 "lynx":"A distributed hypertext browser with full World Wide Web capabilities. Lynx can be used to access information on the World Wide Web, or to build information systems intended primarily for local access.",
 "mcelog":"The user space backend for logging machine check errors reported by the hardware to the kernel. Decodes the logs the errors.",
 "md5deep":"A cross-platform set of programs to compute MD5, SHA-1, SHA-256, Tiger, or Whirlpool message digests on an arbitrary number of files. Has the following additional features: Recursive operation, Comparison mode, Time estimation, Piecewise hasing, and File type mode.",
 "mediainfo":"Supplies technical and tag information about a video or audio file.",
 "moreutils":"moreutils is a growing collection of the unix tools that nobody thought to write long ago when unix was young.",
 "mosh":"remote terminal application that allows roaming, supports intermittent connectivity, and provides intelligent local echo and line editing of user keystrokes.",
 "mtr":"combines the functionality of the traceroute and ping programs in a single network diagnostic tool.",
 "multitail ":"MultiTail lets you view one or multiple files like the original tail program. The difference is that it creates multiple windows on your console.",
 "mktorrent":"Torrent file creator",
 "multitail":"MultiTail lets you view one or multiple files like the original tail program. The difference is that it creates multiple windows on your console (with ncurses).",
 "nc":"A simple utility which reads and writes data across network connections, using TCP or UDP protocol. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool that can be used directly or easily driven by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need and has several interesting built-in capabilities.",
 "ncdu":"ncdu is an ncurses version of the famous old du unix command. It provides a fast and easy interface to your harddrive.",
 "neofetch":"neofetch is a script similar to screenfetch. This script can be used to generate any information about your system, it will auto-detect your system and print it to the terminal next to an image, a distro logo or an ASCII art of your choice.",
 "neon":"neon is an HTTP and WebDAV client library, with a C language API. Bindings for other languages may also be available. Used by projects such as subversion.",
 "netcat-openbsd":"A featured networking utility which reads and writes data across network connections, using the TCP/IP protocol. It is designed to be a reliable back-end tool that can be used directly or easily driven by other programs and scripts. At the same time, it is a feature-rich network debugging and exploration tool, since it can create almost any kind of connection you would need and has several interesting built-in capabilities.",
 "nload":"nload is a console application which monitors network traffic and bandwidth usage in real time. It visualizes the in and outgoing traffic using two graphs and provides additional info like total amount of transfered data an min/max network usage.",
 "nmon":"This systems administrator, tuner, benchmark tool gives you a huge amount of important performance information in one go. It can output the data in two ways. 1) You can display the CPU, memory, network, disks (mini graphs or numbers), file systems, NFS, top processes, resources 2) Save the data to a comma separated file for analysis and longer term data capture.",
 "nodejs":"A platform built on Chrome V8 JavaScript runtime for easily building fast, scalable network applications. Node.js uses an event-driven, non-blocking I/O model that makes it lightweight and efficient, perfect for data-intensive real-time applications that run across distributed devices.",
 "nvme-cli":"NVMe management command line interface.",
 "p7zip":"7-Zip is a well-known file compression utility for windows. p7zip is a ported version for linux with nearly the same capabilities.",
 "par2cmdline":"A tool for creating and using PAR2 parity sets to detect damage in files.",
 "parallel":"A shell tool for executing jobs in parallel using one or more computers. A job can be a single command or a small script that has to be run for each of the lines in the input. The typical input is a list of files, a list of hosts, a list of users, a list of URLs, or a list of tables. A job can also be a command that reads from a pipe. GNU parallel can then split the input and pipe it into commands in parallel.",
 "perl":"Larry Walls Practical Extraction and Report Language . It is a language optimized for scanning arbitrary text files, extracting information from those text files, and printing reports based on that information. It s also a good language for many system management tasks. The language is intended to be practical (easy to use, efficient, complete) rather than beautiful (tiny, elegant, minimal).",
 "pigz":"parallel implementation of gzip, is a fully functional replacement for gzip that exploits multiple processors and multiple cores to the hilt when compressing data.",
 "pip":"a replacement for easy_install from python-setuptools.",
 "powertop":"PowerTOP is a utility that collects data from your system and presents an overview to help optimize power savings. PowerTOP will identify which tunables and software components are the biggest offenders in slurping up your battery time.",
 "progress":"This tool can be described as a Tiny, Dirty command that looks for coreutils basic commands (cp, mv, dd, tar, gzip\/gunzip, cat, etc.) currently running on your system and displays the percentage of copied data. It can also show estimated time and throughput, and provides a `top-like` mode (monitoring).",
 "protobuf":"protocol buffers are a flexible, efficient, automated mechanism for serializing structured data.",
 "psutil":"psutil is a module providing an interface for retrieving information on all running processes and system utilization (CPU, memory, disks, network, users) in a portable way by using Python, implementing many functionalities offered by command line tools such as: ps, top, df, kill, free, lsof, netstat, ifconfig, nice, ionice, iostat, iotop, uptime, pidof, tty, who, taskset, and pmap.",
 "python":"An interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. Its basic power can be extended with your own modules written in C or C++. It is also adaptable as an extension language for existing applications.",
 "python3":"Python is an interpreted, interactive, object-oriented programming language that combines remarkable power with very clear syntax. This is a new version of the language that is incompatible with the 2.x line of releases. The language is mostly the same, but many details, especially how built-in objects like dictionaries and strings work, have changed considerably, and a lot of deprecated features have finally been removed. Also, the standard library has been reorganized in a few prominent places.",
 "python-pip":"pip is a tool for installing and managing Python packages.",
 "python-setuptools":"A collection of enhancements to Python distutils.",
 "ranger":"A multi-column display allows viewing in a tree-like manner. You can preview the content of the selected file or directory, copy or move files around with the VIM-like commands dd and yy, execute predefined applications when opening a file, etc.",
 "rar":"A powerful tool for processing RAR archives. This is a shareware program. You must buy a license from Rar Labs if you want to keep using rar.",
 "rar2fs":"FUSE based file system that can mount a source RAR archive or a directory containing any number of RAR archives and read the contents as regular files on-the-fly.",
 "readline":"Provides a set of functions for use by applications that allow users to edit command lines as they are typed in. Both Emacs and vi editing modes are available. The Readline library includes additional functions to maintain a list of previously entered command lines, to recall and perhaps edit those lines, and perform csh-like history expansion on previous commands.",
 "ripgrep":"line oriented search tool.",
 "rmlint":"rmlint finds space waste and other broken things on your filesystem and offers to remove it.",
 "rsnapshot":"A remote backup program that uses rsync to take backup snapshots of filesystems. It uses hard links to save space on disk.",
 "reptyr":"A utility for taking an existing running program and attaching it to a new terminal.",
 "screen":"A full-screen window manager that multiplexes a physical terminal between several processes (typically interactive shells). Each virtual terminal provides the functions of a DEC VT100 terminal and several control functions from the ISO 6492 (ECMA 48, ANSI X3.64) and ISO 2022 standards.",
 "sdparm":"A utility for listing and potentially changing SCSI disk parameters.",
 "serf":"The serf library is a high performance C-based HTTP client library built upon the Apache Portable Runtime (APR) library.",
 "sg3utils":"sg3_utils is a package of utilities that send SCSI commands to the given DEVICE via a SCSI pass through interface provided by the host operating system.",
 "slocate":"An enhanced version of locate, a command to help you locate files on the system. Like the original version of locate, it maintains a database of files on the system, updating it nightly. Unlike the original, it indexes every file on the machine rather than only the ones that can be seen by everyone. The secure part of slocate is that it will only return matches if the user is allowed to see the files.",
 "socat":"A relay for bidirectional data transfer between two independent data channels.",
 "sshfs-fuse":"This is a filesystem client based on the SSH File Transfer Protocol. Since most SSH servers already support this protocol it is very easy to set up: i.e. on the server side there s nothing to do. On the client side mounting the filesystem is as easy as logging into the server with ssh.",
 "strace":"Allows you to trace the execution of a command. It runs the specified command until it exits, intercepting signals and system calls and dumping the information to the standard error.",
 "strongswan":"strongSwan is an open source IPsec-based VPN Solution for Linux.",
 "stunnel":"Designed to work as an SSL encryption wrapper between remote client and local or remote servers. The goal is to facilitate SSL encryption and authentication for non-SSL-aware programs. stunnel can be used to add SSL functionality to commonly used inetd daemons like POP-2, POP-3 and IMAP servers without any changes in the program code.",
 "subversion":"A version control system which allows you to keep old versions of files and directories (usually source code), and keep a log of who, when, and why changes occurred, similar to other such systems like CVS, RCS or SCCS. Subversion keeps all the information to permit extracting previous versions of those files at any time.",
 "sysstat":"The sysstat utilities are a collection of performance monitoring tools for Linux. These include the iostat, mpstat, pidstat, sadf, and sar tools.",
 "tailscale": "The easiest, most secure, cross platform way to use WireGuard + oauth2 + 2FA/SSO.",
 "tcl":"A simple to use text-based script language with many built-in features which make it especially nice for writing interactive scripts.",
 "tcllib":"Tcllib is a collection of utility modules for Tcl. These modules provide a wide variety of functionality, from implementations of standard data structures to implementations of common networking protocols.",
 "tcpdump":"A tool for network monitoring and data acquisition. You can use it to dump information on all the packets on a network that match a boolean expression.",
 "testdisk":"TestDisk was primarily designed to help recover lost partitions and\/or make non-booting disks bootable again when these symptoms are caused by faulty software, certain types of viruses or human error (such as accidentally deleting a Partition Table).",
 "tinc":"tinc is a Virtual Private Network (VPN) daemon.",
 "tmux":"A terminal multiplexer. It enables a number of terminals to be accessed and controlled from a single terminal.",
 "unionfs-fuse":"filesystem implementation more flexible than kernel solution.",
 "unrar":"Utility is for extracting, testing and viewing the contents of archives created with the RAR archiver version 1.50 and above.",
 "utempter":"Provides a utility and shared library that allows terminal applications such as xterm and screen to update \/var\/run\/utmp and \/var\/log\/wtmp without requiring root privileges.",
 "utf8proc":"utf8proc is a small, clean C library that provides Unicode normalization, case-folding, and other operations for data in the UTF-8 encoding.",
 "vifm":"If you use vi, vifm gives you complete keyboard control over your files without having to learn a new set of commands. The configuration for vifm sits in ~/.vifm.",
 "vim":"Vim is an almost compatible version of the UNIX editor vi. Many new features have been added: multi level undo, command line history, filename completion, block operations, and more. Vim s development is led by Bram Moolenaar. This package also contains the Exuberant Ctags program written by Darren Hiebert.",
 "virtualenv":"A tool to create isolated Python environments.",
 "vnstat":"vnStat is a network traffic monitor for Linux that keeps a log of daily network traffic for the selected interface(s). vnStat isn't a packetsniffer. The traffic information is analyzed from the \/proc filesystem so vnStat can be used without root permissions.",
 "wd5741":"Firmware update utility for WD Red drives.",
 "xinetd":"A powerful inetd replacement. It has access control mechanisms, extensive logging capabilities, the ability to make services available based on time, can place limits on the number of servers that can be started, and has a configurable defence mechanisms to protect against port scanners.",
 "zpaq":"Manages journaling archives for incremental user-level local or remote backups that conform to The ZPAQ Open Standard Format for Highly Compressed Data (see AVAILABILITY). The format supports encrypted, deduplicated, and compressed single or multi-part archives with rollback capability. It supports archives as large as 1000 times available memory or up to 250 TB and 4 billion files, interoperable between Windows and Unix\/Linux\/OS X.",
 "zsh":"A UNIX command interpreter which resembles the Korn shell It includes enhancements of many types, notably in the command-line editor, options for customizing its behavior, filename globbing."
}
